Dhruvisha’s Stories - 1. As a developer, I will learn about securing server configurations, so that I can protect against cyberattacks.
What is server security?
Server security refers to all the processes and tools used to protect the sensitive data, resources, and assets held on a server.Servers are frequently targeted by cybercriminals because they tend to hold sensitive and valuable information. Cybercriminals are always on the lookout to exploit vulnerabilities in server security for financial gain and other reasons.
Common Server Security Vulnerabilities - 
Weak passwords - To guess weak passwords, hackers can use malicious bots to perform brute force attacks or credential stuffing attacks. If the attackers gain possession of admin credentials, they can then access your servers and cause a data breach. The attackers may also sell your credential information on the dark web. Make sure you are using a sufficiently strong password that is at least 10 characters long, use a combination of lowercase and uppercase, symbols, numbers, and spaces, and unique only for this account. Consider using a password manager service to ensure you are always using strong passwords you won’t forget.
Patch management - It’s important to use a patch management service to ensure any changes in code are properly tested before installation and comes from a trusted source.
Failed or missed updates on software and OS - No software or OS is 100% perfect, and responsible manufacturers will address security vulnerabilities in their software with security fixes and patches. So, these updates are there for a reason. However, when a software manufacturer releases a patch note, they are also announcing this vulnerability to the public (including cybercriminals). This is why you should always update your OS and software as soon as patches are made available. Cybercriminals are constantly exploiting vulnerabilities in software, so running an outdated software version will significantly increase your risks of data breaches.
Misconfigured network ports - An improper server configuration, especially regarding network ports, can easily be exploited by cybercriminals. It’s very important to configure and optimize the server according to the server security best practices.
Unused accounts - Old and forgotten accounts are often used by hackers (after a successful brute force attack, for example) to gain access to the server. Make sure to perform periodic cleanups of old and obsolete accounts.
Poor physical security - Not all outside threats to your server’s security are digital in nature. When, for example, thieves gain physical access to your server, it is also compromised. Poorly secured dongle keys can also be very dangerous for your server’s security
How can be set up server properly - https://www.globalsign.com/en/blog/how-to-set-up-server
